**Aggregate Form 940 filers.** Approved section 3504 agents and CPEOs must complete Schedule R (Form 940), Allocation Schedule for Aggregate Form 940 Filers, when filing an aggregate Form 940, Employer's Annual Federal Unemployment (FUTA) Tax Return. Aggregate Forms 940 can be filed by agents acting on behalf of home care service recipients who receive home care services through a program administered by a federal, state, or local government. To request approval to act as an agent on behalf of home care service recipients, the agent files Form 2678 with the IRS unless you're a state or local government agency acting as an agent under the special procedures provided in _Revenue Procedure 2013-39_ . Aggregate Forms 940 are also filed by CPEOs approved by the IRS under section 7705. CPEOs file Form 8973 to notify the IRS that they’ve started or ended a service contract with a client or customer. CPEOs must generally file Form 940 and Schedule R (Form 940) electronically. For more information about a CPEO's requirement to file electronically, see _Revenue Procedure 2023-18_ . 

**Work opportunity tax credit for qualified tax-exempt organizations hiring qualified veterans.** Qualified tax-exempt organizations that hire eligible unemployed veterans may be able to claim the work opportunity tax credit against their payroll tax liability using Form 5884-C. For more information, go to _IRS.gov/WOTC_ . 

**Medicaid waiver payments.** Notice 2014-7 provides that certain Medicaid waiver payments are excludable from income for federal income tax purposes. See Notice 2014-7, 2014-4 I.R.B. 445, available at _IRS.gov/irb/ 2014-04_IRB#NOT-2014-7_ . For more information, including questions and answers related to Notice 2014-7, go to _IRS.gov/MedicaidWaiverPayments_ . 

**No federal income tax withholding on disability payments for injuries incurred as a direct result of a terrorist attack directed against the United States.** Disability payments for injuries incurred as a direct result of a terrorist attack directed against the United States (or its allies) aren't included in income. Because federal income tax withholding is only required when a payment is includible in income, no federal income tax should be withheld from these payments. See Pub. 907, Tax Highlights for Persons With Disabilities; and Pub. 3920, Tax Relief for Victims of Terrorist Attacks. 

**Voluntary withholding on dividends and other distributions by an Alaska Native Corporation (ANC).** A shareholder of an ANC may request voluntary income tax withholding on dividends and other distributions paid by an ANC. A shareholder may request voluntary withholding by giving the ANC a completed Form W-4V. For more information, see Notice 2013-77, 2013-50 I.R.B. 632, available at _IRS.gov/irb/2013-50_IRB#NOT-2013-77_ . 

**Definition of marriage.** A marriage of two individuals is recognized for federal tax purposes if the marriage is recognized by the state or territory of the United States in which the marriage is entered into, regardless of legal residence. Two individuals who enter into a relationship that is denominated as marriage under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction or an American Indian tribe are recognized as married for federal tax purposes if the relationship would be 

recognized as marriage under the laws of at least one state or territory of the United States, regardless of legal residence. Individuals who have entered into a registered domestic partnership, civil union, or other similar relationship that isn't denominated as a marriage under the law of the state or territory of the United States where such relationship was entered into aren't lawfully married for federal tax purposes, regardless of legal residence. 

**Differential wage payments.** Qualified differential wage payments made by employers to individuals serving in the U.S. Armed Forces are subject to income tax withholding but not social security, Medicare, or FUTA tax. See section 5 for more information. 

**Severance payments.** Severance payments are wages subject to social security and Medicare taxes, income tax withholding, and FUTA tax. 

**You must receive written notice from the IRS to file Form 944.** If you’ve been filing quarterly Forms 941 and believe your employment taxes for the calendar year will be $1,000 or less, and you would like to file an annual Form 944 instead of quarterly Forms 941, you must contact the IRS during the first calendar quarter of the tax year to request to file Form 944. You must receive written notice from the IRS to file Form 944 instead of quarterly Forms 941 before you may file this form. For more information on requesting to file Form 944, including the methods and deadlines for making a request, see the Instructions for Form 944. 

**Employers can request to file quarterly Forms 941 instead of an annual Form 944.** If you received notice from the IRS to file Form 944 but would like to file quarterly Forms 941 instead, you must contact the IRS during the first calendar quarter of the tax year to request to file quarterly Forms 941. You must receive written notice from the IRS to file quarterly Forms 941 instead of Form 944 before you may file these forms. For more information on requesting to file quarterly Forms 941, including the methods and deadlines for making a request, see the Instructions for Form 944. 

**Correcting Form 941, Form 943, or Form 944.** If you discover an error on a previously filed Form 941, make the correction using Form 941-X. If you discover an error on a previously filed Form 943, make the correction using Form 943-X. If you discover an error on a previously filed Form 944, make the correction using Form 944-X. Form 941-X, Form 943-X, and Form 944-X are filed separately from Form 941, Form 943, and Form 944. Form 941-X, Form 943-X, and Form 944-X are used by employers to claim refunds or abatements of employment taxes, rather than Form 843. See section 13 for more information. 

**Zero wage return.** If you haven't filed a “final” Form 940 and "final" Form 941, Form 943, or Form 944, or aren't a “seasonal” employer (Form 941 only), you must continue to file a Form 940 and Forms 941, Form 943, or Form 944, even for periods during which you paid no wages. The IRS encourages you to file your “zero wage” Form 940 and Forms 941, Form 943, or Form 944 electronically. Go to _IRS.gov/EmploymentEfile_ for more information on electronic filing. 

**4** 

**Publication 15 (2025)** 

