(or Form 944, lines 4b and 4c). If the aggregate wages and tips paid for an employee exceed $200,000 for the calendar year, report the Additional Medicare Tax on Form 941, line 5d (or Form 944, line 4d). Include as a negative adjustment on Form 941, line 9 (or Form 944, line 6), the total uncollected employee share of the social security and Medicare taxes. 

**Adjustment of tax on group-term life insurance premiums paid for former employees.** The employee share of social security and Medicare taxes for premiums on group-term life insurance over $50,000 for a former employee is paid by the former employee with their tax return and isn't collected by the employer. However, include all social security and Medicare taxes for such coverage on Form 941, lines 5a and 5c (or Form 944, lines 4a and 4c). For Form 943, include the social security wages and Medicare wages on lines 2 and 4, respectively; and report the social security tax and Medicare tax on lines 3 and 5, respectively. If the amount paid for an employee for premiums on group-term life insurance combined with other wages exceeds $200,000 for the calendar year, report the Additional Medicare Tax on Form 941, line 5d (or Form 944, line 4d). For Form 943, include the Additional Medicare Tax wages on line 6 and report the Additional Medicare Tax on line 7. Back out the amount of the employee share of these taxes as a negative adjustment on Form 941, line 9 (or Form 943, line 10; or Form 944, line 6). See Pub. 15-B for more information on group-term life insurance. 

_For the above adjustments, prepare and retain a_ **TIP** _brief supporting statement explaining the nature and amount of each. Don't attach the statement to Form 941, Form 943, or Form 944. See the General Instructions for Forms W-2 and W-3 for information on how to report the uncollected employee share of social security and Medicare taxes on tips and group-term life insurance on Form W-2._ 

_**Example.**_ Cedar, Inc., filed Form 941 and was entitled to the following current period adjustments. 

- **Fractions of cents.** Cedar, Inc., determined the amounts withheld and deposited for social security and Medicare taxes during the quarter were a net $1.44 more than the employee share of the amount figured on Form 941, lines 5a–5d, column 2 (social security and Medicare taxes). This difference was caused by adding or dropping fractions of cents when figuring social security and Medicare taxes for each wage payment. Cedar, Inc., must report a positive $1.44 fractions-of-cents adjustment on Form 941, line 7. 

- **Third-party sick pay.** Cedar, Inc., included taxes of $2,000 for sick pay on Form 941, lines 5a and 5c, column 2, for social security and Medicare taxes. However, the third-party payer of the sick pay withheld and paid the employee share ($1,000) of these taxes. Cedar, Inc., is entitled to a $1,000 sick pay adjustment (negative) on Form 941, line 8. 

- **Life insurance premiums.** Cedar, Inc., paid group-term life insurance premiums for policies in excess of $50,000 for former employees. The former employees must pay the employee share of the social security and Medicare taxes ($200) on the policies. However, Cedar, Inc., must include the employee share of these taxes with the social security and Medicare taxes reported on Form 941, lines 5a and 5c, column 2. Therefore, Cedar, Inc., is entitled to a negative $200 adjustment on Form 941, line 9. 

**No change to record of federal tax liability.** Don't make any changes to your record of federal tax liability reported on Form 941, line 16, or Schedule B (Form 941) (for Form 943 filers, Form 943 line 17, or Form 943-A; or for Form 944 filers, Form 944, line 13, or Form 945-A) for current period adjustments. The amounts reported on the record reflect the actual amounts you withheld from employees' wages for social security and Medicare taxes. Because the current period adjustments make the amounts reported on Form 941, lines 5a–5d, column 2 (or Form 943, lines 3, 5, and 7; or Form 944, lines 4a–4d, column 2), equal the actual amounts you withheld (the amounts reported on the record), no additional changes to the record of federal tax liability are necessary for these adjustments. 

## **Prior Period Adjustments** 

**Forms for prior period adjustments.** Use Form 941-X, Form 943-X, or Form 944-X to make a correction after you discover an error on a previously filed Form 941, Form 943, or Form 944. There are also Form 945-X and Form CT-1 X to report corrections on the corresponding returns. Use Form 843 when requesting a refund or abatement of assessed interest or penalties. 

_See Revenue Ruling 2009-39, 2009-52 I.R.B._ **TIP** _951, for examples of how the interest-free adjustment and claim for refund rules apply in 10 different situations. You can find Revenue Ruling 2009-39 at IRS.gov/irb/2009-52_IRB#RR-2009-39._ 

**Background.** Treasury Decision 9405 changed the process for making interest-free adjustments to employment taxes reported on Form 941, Form 943, and Form 944 and for filing a claim for refund of employment taxes. Treasury Decision 9405, 2008-32 I.R.B. 293, is available at _IRS.gov/irb/2008-32_IRB#TD-9405_ . You’ll use the adjustment process if you underreported employment taxes and are making a payment, or if you overreported employment taxes and will be applying the credit to the Form 941, Form 943, or Form 944 period during which you file Form 941-X, Form 943-X, or Form 944-X. You’ll use the claim process if you overreported employment taxes and are requesting a refund or abatement of the overreported amount. We use the terms “correct” and “corrections” to include interest-free adjustments under sections 6205 and 6413, and claims for refund and abatement under sections 6402, 6414, and 6404. 

**40** 

**Publication 15 (2025)** 

