**Disaster tax relief.** Disaster tax relief is available for those impacted by disasters. For more information about disaster relief, go to _IRS.gov/DisasterTaxRelief_ . 

**Payroll tax credit for certain tax-exempt organizations affected by qualified disasters.** Section 303(d) of the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2020 allows for a payroll tax credit for certain tax-exempt organizations affected by certain qualified disasters **not** related to COVID-19. This credit is claimed on Form 5884-D (not on Form 941, Form 943, or Form 944). Form 5884-D is filed after the Form 941 for the quarter, Form 943 for the year, or Form 944 for the year for which the credit is being claimed has been filed. For more information about this credit, go to _IRS.gov/Form5884D_ . 

**2025 withholding tables.** The Percentage Method and Wage Bracket Method withholding tables, the employer instructions on how to figure employee withholding, and the amount to add to a nonresident alien employee's wages for figuring income tax withholding are included in Pub. 15-T, Federal Income Tax Withholding Methods, available at _IRS.gov/Pub15T_ . 

**Moving expense reimbursement.** P.L. 115-97 suspends the exclusion for qualified moving expense reimbursements from your employee's income for tax years beginning after 2017 and before 2026. However, the exclusion is still available in the case of a member of the U.S. Armed Forces on active duty who moves because of a permanent change of station due to a military order. The exclusion applies only to reimbursement of moving expenses that the member could deduct if they had paid or incurred them without reimbursement. See _Moving Expenses_ in Pub. 3, Armed Forces' Tax Guide, for the definition of what constitutes a permanent change of station and to learn which moving expenses are deductible. 

**Withholding on supplemental wages.** P.L. 115-97 lowered the withholding rates on supplemental wages for tax years beginning after 2017 and before 2026. See section 7 for the withholding rates. 

**Backup withholding.** P.L. 115-97 lowered the backup withholding rate to 24% for tax years beginning after 2017 and before 2026. For more information on backup withholding, see _Backup withholding_ , later. 

**Certification program for professional employer organizations (PEOs).** The Stephen Beck, Jr., Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act of 2014 required the IRS to establish a voluntary certification program for PEOs. PEOs handle various payroll administration and tax reporting responsibilities for their business clients and are typically paid a fee based on payroll costs. To become and remain certified under the certification program, certified professional employer organizations (CPEOs) must meet various requirements described in sections 3511 and 7705 and related published guidance. Certification as a CPEO may affect the employment tax liabilities of both the CPEO and its customers. A CPEO is generally treated for employment tax purposes as the employer of any individual who performs services for a customer of the CPEO and is covered by a contract described in section 7705(e) (2) between the CPEO and the customer (CPEO contract), but only for wages and other compensation paid to 

the individual by the CPEO. To become a CPEO, the organization must apply through the IRS Online Registration System. For more information or to apply to become a CPEO, go to _IRS.gov/CPEO_ . Also see Revenue Procedure 2023-18, 2023-13 I.R.B. 605, available at _IRS.gov/irb/2023-13_IRB#REV-PROC-2023-18_ . **Outsourcing payroll duties.** Generally, as an employer, you’re responsible to ensure that tax returns are filed and deposits and payments are made, even if you contract with a third party to perform these acts. You remain responsible if the third party fails to perform any required action. Before you choose to outsource any of your payroll and related tax duties (that is, withholding, reporting, and paying over social security, Medicare, FUTA, and income taxes) to a third-party payer, such as a payroll service provider or reporting agent, go to _IRS.gov/ OutsourcingPayrollDuties_ for helpful information on this topic. If a CPEO pays wages and other compensation to an individual performing services for you, and the services are covered by a CPEO contract, then the CPEO is generally treated as the employer, but only for wages and other compensation paid to the individual by the CPEO. However, with respect to certain employees covered by a CPEO contract, you may also be treated as an employer of the employees and, consequently, may also be liable for federal employment taxes imposed on wages and other compensation paid by the CPEO to such employees. For more information on the different types of third-party payer arrangements, see section 16. 

**Aggregate Form 941 or Form 943 filers.** Approved section 3504 agents and CPEOs must complete Schedule R (Form 941), Allocation Schedule for Aggregate Form 941 Filers, or Schedule R (Form 943), Allocation Schedule for Aggregate Form 943 Filers, as applicable, when filing an aggregate Form 941 or Form 943. An aggregate quarterly Form 941 or annual Form 943 is filed by an agent approved by the IRS under section 3504 of the Internal Revenue Code. To request approval to act as an agent for an employer, the agent files Form 2678 with the IRS unless you're a state or local government agency acting as an agent under the special procedures provided in Revenue Procedure 2013-39, 2013-52 I.R.B. 830, available at _IRS.gov/irb/2013-52_IRB#RP-2013-39_ . An aggregate quarterly Form 941 or annual Form 943 is also filed by CPEOs approved by the IRS under section 7705. To become a CPEO, the organization must apply through the IRS Online Registration System at _IRS.gov/CPEO_ . CPEOs file Form 8973, Certified Professional Employer Organization/Customer Reporting Agreement, to notify the IRS that they’ve started or ended a service contract with a client or customer. CPEOs must generally file Form 941 or Form 943 and the applicable Schedule R electronically. For more information about a CPEO's requirement to file electronically, see _Revenue Procedure 2023-18_ . 

Other third-party payers that file an aggregate quarterly Form 941 or annual Form 943, such as non-certified PEOs, must complete and file the applicable Schedule R if they have clients that are claiming any employment tax credit (for example, the qualified small business payroll tax credit for increasing research activities). 

**Publication 15 (2025)** 

**3** 

